Hello?
Hello, sir. Good? Yeah. Good. Good afternoon everyone.
Yeah, good afternoon. Good afternoon, sir. Okay.
There was some, uh, issue in the meeting link.
So I have to re,
so 31 people have joined till now.
I'll wait for one or two minutes.
So today, and, uh, I mean fast, uh, two
to three lecture will be theoretical.
I will give you the brief, uh, the foundation principle.
So today will be on that.
The example will be shown after, uh, third lecture. Okay.
So second and third lecture will be mostly on
theoretical part.
Let me send, uh, this to my, so that you'll get it on your,
just gimme two minutes, lemme send it to my, so
that you can get it in your portal
so you can share chat, also chat.
Okay.
I'll send it. But for record making, I need to send it to,
you are able to see the screen, right?
So what is the chat window sharing? Yes. Yeah,
what is the chat window for sharing?
I think it's referring Zoom chat.
I think more, I think more option share.
Okay. Just, just let me stop the sharing there.
I had seen some option
Docs share doc option.
No, it is asking for co-signing and all.
Uh, I think you can share in the Zoom chat itself.
Uh, zoom chat. Oh, okay.
Not in that, uh, in Google Chat.
Yeah. Okay. Okay.
I've just pinged you, you can share everything. This here?
Yeah. Yeah, I got it here. Yeah.
Okay. I have shared it.
Okay, so lemme start sharing the,
So you're able to see that, uh, window, right?
Yes. Yes, sir. Okay.
So today we'll talk about what I'll discuss about your, um,
markup process.
Okay. Zoom it.
So, uh, markup process is a,
uh, model-based process.
Model-based process means the agent is knowing the, um,
state, uh, transition table of the environment.
So basically the state transition table is a very important
information for the agent to take a
action on a particular state.
So if the agent knows the state transition information
of the environment, then we apply MDP.
If the agent do not know the information
of state transition, then we cannot apply MDP.
Okay? So MDP is, as I told you, it is a
very elegant mechanism for
sequential decision making.
So every time you are taking an action
and then you are changing your state,
this is called state action sequence.
So the overall problem is called, uh,
sequential decision making problem under uncertainty.
So that is the main, uh, characteristics of the problem
under which, uh, MDP will be functioning.
Okay? So, uh, I will give you one example.
This is called G grid world problem.
Uh, let me zoom it further. So here is a G grid word.
Yeah. So this is the grid world. This is the agent.
This agent can move, right, left, or up or down.
Okay? It can take the action in a particular state.
It has four actions in the four direction.
This is a, so it is 1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3, 4 row.
So it is three cross four grid world.
There is a, uh, target here.
That is, if you reach this place, uh, this diamond,
so this diamond, if you reach this diamond, uh, grid,
you are going to get plus one reward.
Okay? If you get into the, there's a hole here or pit here.
If you get into this, the, uh, this G grid location,
you'll be getting a minus reward.
And here, if you get into this G grid,
there is a fire fireplace here,
you'll be getting minus one reward.
So your objective is you can start from this particular
location of your, uh,
the agent will start from this particular location.
It can take any movement in the four, one
of the four direction As,
and when he's changing one step to another state,
he'll be receiving a reward.
Okay? That reward is optional.
He may not receive any reward.
Also in either of the case, we can solve this problem. Okay?
So, uh, this problem, if I want to describe in,
um, mark of division process formulation,
what are the things I need?
I need a set of states.
Set of states will be 12 states here, set of action for each
and every state we have, set of action is four, action,
upper down, left and right.
Transition function is conditional probability that given
that he, uh, the agent is in the particular state of ace
and he's taking action, a he'll be transitioning
to a reward.
Function is on taking on,
on transitioning from ACE to S desk.
The agent will be receiving a reward.
This reward is something that, uh, is defined
by the environment, and it is a variable.
It can be a variable reward.
It may not be static all the time.
That means for a given, as if you take a particular a,
the reward that you're going to get by reaching the state
of sdes, that will not be constant throughout the time
of your whole experiment.
So starting state is, is not, that is we starting from here.
Discount factor, this factor is a gamma.
It is denoted by gamma, but the value is between zero
and one horizon means total
how many trial you can take it.
So under this, uh, condition, MDP will be formulating.
So these are given to us.
Then only MDP will be helping us to solve it.
What is the objective here?
The objective is to maximize
the expected reward for the entire horizon
that you have taken your trial.
Okay? So to write it in terms of mathematical notation,
it is this expression.
So T is the time, which is starting from zero.
It'll be ending up to capital H
because you have your, uh, upper limit of your number
of action that you can take is capital H
number of actions, okay?
And the reward that you are getting, look at this.
Reward function, R function.
This is the R function over here.
So reward, given that you are in a state of st at time,
t you are taking action.
80, you are transitioning to next state is st plus one.
Okay? So this is the reward you are going to get for each
and every action on a particular state.
That reward will be multiplied by the discount factor
that is gamma to the power T.
Okay? So this will be taken for one single trial path.
Your trial is going to end up at capital
H number of attempt.
Now, let's say you take a trial, you take,
let's say you are allowed to take 12 number
of transition, okay?
So you're allowed to take 12 number of transition.
You go around all this grid,
you have not reached the diamond, so you are going
to restart your game again, okay?
This restart of your game is basically
depending on whether you have reached the uh, diamond
or not, okay?
Even if you have reached the diamond,
still you can do a restart in an expectation
that you can reach the diamond in a less amount of trial.
Suppose you have exhausted 12 number of transition
to reach the diamond, okay?
The next attempt, what you're going to do is you don't want
to take all the 12 trials before that.
You want to reach this particular diamond, okay?
So you are allowed to do that.
So that means
whenever you are completing all of the age attempt,
you do this submission multiplied by gamma factor.
Take that value, okay?
Then again, you restart your another trial.
You take each number of attempt, capital h, number of you do
that, complete that trial.
So this will go on for, uh,
it is not going on forever,
but you need to have a upper limit for that.
Okay? So when you do that, then we divide
that whole submission by the total number of, uh,
times you have started this trial
and all, if you do the division,
then you get expected below of the reward.
So this is what is our objective here.
Now, with this example, I will show you the,
the value that it is changing every
time, okay?
Okay. So, uh, our objective here is
to maximize this part, okay?
This part. So this one is,
uh, so look at this is the same thing.
You are starting your trial from the time physical to zero.
You are going to end your single trial
by taking capital H number of attempts, okay?
For every attempt, you are going to get some reward.
So every attempt means you are taking action on the state
of ace, you are going to next state st plus one, okay?
This will keep on going on.
So this one, when you are taking this submission
with the account of this discount factor, do the submission.
This is called reward calculation,
but expected reward is you restart your game.
How many ever total times you have restarted your game?
Take the submission for all of this value, okay?
And then final summation, you are going to take
for every time you restarted game divide by total number
of restart, you have made it.
So this is your objective to do that.
This objective is known
as value function.
Okay? This left hand side,
this left hand side is known as value function.
Okay? So value function is basically nothing,
but it says that what is the expected sum
of discounted reward?
Look at here, the meaning english meaning is given.
What is the expected sum
of discounted reward given
that you're starting from the state of smallest here, okay?
Starting from the smallest. The smallest is basically
this is not means at the time point
of zero, what is your state?
Okay? So T means at a time point of time, point
of T what is your state?
So whenever we say about value function,
the value function is always associated with a state.
Let's say you are starting from, as I told you,
these are all sequential reason making under uncertainty.
That means you can start from anywhere
you need not be starting from this position all the time.
You can start your game from here.
You can start your game from here, everywhere.
You can start you again. Okay?
So this v start off is,
this one is basically value function for every state.
So for every state we are having some value function,
and that value function is basically,
it is not like you take, uh, one single action
and compute your value, okay?
It is not that you have to take all the possible number
of attempt, which is coming under the horizon, okay?
Like that you can restart your game again
and again from the same state by taking some other action.
Every time do the submission divide.
By total number of time you'll have restarted.
This will become a hello function.
By the help of hello function, we're going
to solve this mark of process.
Okay? So here is one example
that what is it, uh,
symbol this pie represents in this value function, sir?
Yeah, I'll tell you no, I'll tell you.
Lemme just adjust this. Okay?
So this is the figure that I have taken from Peter Abel's,
uh, video lecture note.
Okay? So I will now tell you what is the pie.
Now this pie is basically called given a
particular policy, what is your expected sum
of discounted reward?
Okay? Now you can change every time your policy
before starting your, before restarting your game.
So policy means, policy stands for
what is the action you are going
to take at a particular state.
It is called policy. Okay?
Now, whenever you are starting your game,
let's say you're starting your game from the state call ace
for that, we are going to calculate our value function
for the state of ace, okay?
Under that situation, you are taking one policy.
So your policy will be like this.
Lemme show you here.
This is the agreed. So your policy stands for this fact.
Policy means this is not by pi, it is basically it's,
it is a function, okay?
So PI is a function which is defined
from state to action.
This is called for a function.
You have a domain, you have a range, okay?
The input is state, this is the input
and output is the action.
For every state you're going to take
a particular action, okay?
For every state we have action of left,
right, up or down.
Out of these four possibility,
you are going to take only one action.
Okay? The probability will be same. It may not be same.
The probability of taking action, that may not be same.
Okay? We can start initializing
with all our equal probability,
but at the end we'll see they are not equal probability
after completion of your game.
Okay? So you choose one particular action.
Then you, let's say you are the state of this state,
you are currently here,
you are allowed to take any one of the four.
Let's say you take a action here on the upside, okay?
With the probability of this. So that is called policy.
Now we have written that this V of A we start
means optimal thing.
We're taking a maximization over PI
for the quantity called expected
sum of discounted reward, capital H,
gamma T reward for S
and is you are taking action, A, you are transitioning
to next state st plus one.
This is a reward function.
This will be condition on policy P
and your initial state of is not.
Is it too small? This is what you are going to maximize.
Okay? So look at this policy means,
let's say now I have a policy which is predefined from here.
I'll go here from here, I'll go, here is my diamond.
This is plus one reward. Okay?
So I start from here, I go here like this.
This is one policy under this policy.
If you start your game from here,
what is the value you are going to get
that will be stored here, okay?
Under this policy, at that point of time,
this maximizing over pie will not be coming.
Let's say I have another policy,
lemme change the color.
Let's say I have another policy
done.
Let's say I have another policy which is like this. So
I have another policy, which is yellow color.
What is happening? Color is not everything. Okay?
So this is that.
So this is one policy.
Then I go here, then I come here,
then I go here, then I go here.
Then after I reach here, this is another policy, okay?
So I can calculate my V of,
so V of a under the policy of red color is going to be,
this maximization will not be coming here.
This will be expectation of this quantity.
So let me, for your
easiness, let me not write this submission.
I'll just write it in the exact form.
So in this case, you'll let your start,
your game at here is not this, this sale, okay?
So, uh, at the sale of starting sale is gamma power
of zero multiplied by reward.
You are starting from, let's say this is cell number
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12.
So your uh, current status is one you have taken action
of up up U.
Okay? Yes, you have taken action for this.
The next step is five.
This plus then you, your time is now
you have taken one time step.
So now this gumma power off gumma power
of one reward.
You are current at a state of five.
You are taking a action from here.
From here, what action you are taking this one.
So you're having a op upside action.
Again, you have op, you are going to next step call nine.
Okay? Plus again, this will follow through Goma square.
The second times step, the reward, okay? From nine to 10.
So currently you are at nine.
You are going on the right side, you're on the next step.
This will go on until you reach your last date. Okay?
Now all of this reward has to be given to you beforehand.
Then only you can apply MDP.
So then last, uh, last is this one from,
you are coming from 11, right?
So it is ending up here at what,
how many steps this is
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
So gum up power of six
out of six, reward from 11.
You are taking right side 2012. Okay?
So this one, this submission, when you take it,
I have given a expectation symbol here.
Okay? Expectation means
this is one random sample that you have drawn.
This is one random sample you have drawn.
You can start your, uh,
journey from any other state under this policy,
under this policy, you can start your journey.
Uh, okay, this value function is associated
with a particular state of ace only.
So you are not allowed
to start your journey from any other state.
You have to start from always this state of one
because this value function is you are calculating
for the state of one only, okay?
V of one. So the expectation means what you can do is
you can retry this again
with, uh, this changing
of all your action at a particular state.
This changing of your action.
So as I told you, this pie means finding out the association
between a action and a, uh,
between the state and the action.
What will be the probability
of taking this, that is called pi.
So if your policy is a deterministic policy
that from here you will go always here for them.
This expectation will not be coming
because it is a deterministic.
Expectation is only coming only when you have a random
sample available to you,
and the randomness is caused by total four
possible action you can take at every state.
Okay? So you can change this next action
for a given state every time
and you compute this value, your objective is going to be
maximizing this value with respect to one single pie.
Okay? So here the maximization of pie, this is
for only the policy that I have drawn here
as red color sample.
Then you can change your,
another policy to blue color sample.
You are taking this path and all.
So in that case, your policy is changed
and then you could go out
and do the calculation again and again.
So that is what is called value function.
So why in expression, oh,
Do we need to, uh, indicate, uh, pi zero here
or pi one like that?
Uh, because every time it'll be
different policy we are choosing.
Yeah, every time there'll be different policy.
How do you one single policy we keep on taking
all the possible action.
Okay? That is one, one random sample you have drawn here.
Then again, you can change your policy from
red color to blue color.
After that, again, you compute the same, uh, method
of calculating your reward.
So, and outta all of this policy, you need
to find out the which particular policy,
which producing the maximum reward.
So, so if there is four actions, possible actions
that is only finite set of, uh, policies are there, right?
Sir? Do we need to denote that? Okay, this is this policy.
I applied this citation, the next policy,
next citation like that.
Do we Yes, specific here somewhere
That specification is you look at here this
expression, yeah, it is condition on the fact
that you are taking a policy called pie.
Okay? Okay. Now you change your policy, you are going to get
another policy's expected value of this thing.
So this is a function of policy only
because, okay, keep changing your policy,
compute that particular value.
Mm-hmm. Among all of the policy, you compare
who is producing the maximum value.
Okay?
Okay, so here is the one example that is, uh,
let's assume that you are taking,
determines your actions deterministic successful,
and your gamma factor is 0.9.
Your total number of, uh,
attempt you can make under single trial is a
hundred number of attempts.
Here, deterministically successful means,
so the state numbering is given here, four comma three.
So this is four comma three is here, okay?
Four comma three value is one, right?
What is your three comma three value?
So three comma three is here.
So that value is going to be diminishing
by the gamma factor.
So as I told you, the value function when you are computing,
you need to know the, you need to know the gamma factor.
You need to know the reward for taking one single action.
If the reward is not known to you,
let's say our reward is all the time zero.
That means every action you take from a given state is going
to be reward to be zero for a single state transition.
But only when you go to the, uh, terminal state,
terminal state here, here, and here, okay?
These three are called terminal state only.
On the terminal state, the, um,
the reward is known to you for intermediate state,
the reward is not known to you.
We consider reward is zero in the intermediate state.
So your reward will be basically diminishing from the state
of the, from the reward
for the terminal state to backward flow.
Okay? So this terminal state is having a reward of one.
So naturally this will be multiplied by 0.9.
So that this, uh, state the reward is going that this state,
the value is going to be 0.9.
So that is why we start off three. Comm three is given 0.9.
Now we start off two, comma three is going
to be multi this value multiplied by, again 0.9.
So 0.9 multiplied by 0.9. Okay?
Now we start off this, uh, this, this
is one comma three.
So one comma three will be farther,
it'll be this will multiplied by another 0.9.
This'll be diminishing again and again like that.
Now you have we one comm one, that value is going to be
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 5 times you have taken
transition 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
So 0.9 multiplied five times. This will result with this.
That is the value for this.
So this is called under deterministic case is,
Okay? Similarly,
you can find out the value for four comma for,
okay, for four comma to the value is minus one here, okay?
It is given to you. So like that.
Now, what will be the value function for this state?
So this state, if you take one transition, the right side,
you'll get into minus on.
But if you take a upside, direct upside movement,
you'll be getting into this state which is already having a
hello of 0.9.
This three comma three state is already having
a hello of 0.9.
Okay? Now, when you take a transition from here to here,
you are not given any dard.
You are not given any reward, okay?
So, uh, so the value function
for this is going to be the probability that you take
this, uh, right side action, multiply by the value
that you opt in here, okay?
Plus probability that you take a transition from here
to here, multiply by the value of this state, okay?
That is why, uh,
so this submission is going to be written like this.
So when you are going to do,
sir, do we have any API to do that
or manual competition is needed.
There are, uh, python package available.
You need to call their proper environment.
These are all available, okay?
So as I told you, you are into this state.
You are into this state. This is called three comm
2 1, 2 3, and
It's three comma three, Right?
1, 2, 3, 4, 2, 3,
Okay? Three commat, two
is three, comma two state.
So the value for three comma two is going to be
The value of this date.
This date is four comma two,
multiplied by that probability that you have taken a, uh,
at the state of three comma two, this is your state,
you have taken action on the right side, okay?
This plus the value of this state, what is the state number?
This is three comma three.
This is three comma three multiplied by, given
that you are in the state of three comma two,
you have taken action on the op side, okay?
This is going to be the value computed at this state.
So here, this, this reward, um, probably
of taking right hand side action.
This is one fourth. If we consider all the action,
four actions are equal probability.
This is one fourth, what is a value for four comma two?
It is minus one is a value for three comma three,
this value is 0.9.
0.9, okay? 0.9, multiply three.
So you can write this fellow minus one four plus
0.914.
This is going to be a value for this, like that.
This value is going to computed backward
manner. This
The, since we are going for the probability, sir,
even it can take the left also, sir,
Because There are chances
that the agent can move, right?
Can up and even right, left also.
Yeah, left also Two also will get added to
It. Yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah.
But the problem over here is in this scenario, it is a pit.
Naturally, the reward is known to you.
This reward is known to you, okay?
That is, let's say it is minus one reward
if you get into this pit, yes sir.
There's a fireplace here. Yes.
If this reward is known to you, then you, you are right.
You have to take into account of this side from here
to here, you can go again from here to here.
Also, you can go, okay?
Now the problem is this.
Let's say this particular state, this value may not be known
to you when you are computing heat here.
Under that situation, what we do now, that situation we
release, uh, we hold on computation of this particular state
because this requires the value of this state
to be known to you beforehand.
Okay? So again, you look at,
here is a plus one here is a minus one.
Here is a minus one.
For this case, let's say we don't have a minus one.
It is a, it is a
normal state, okay?
Under that situation, under that situation,
this value is not known to us.
So what we do is we initialize all
of their values apart from these two terminal state
to be all zero, to all zero, and then we update that value.
So this update is going to happen
under one single iation for every state.
So if you don't know this value of the previous state,
we assume that that value is zero.
Then you update this value here, okay?
The next, this value will be getting propagated to here
and this value propagate back to here.
So if you don know the state value,
then we take the generally ga
because in the previous example, when we have this from one
to, uh, the states, we have given that 0.9 0.9,
and then we are taking up this values. So the same
Ga ga is associated with the reward
multiplied by gamma, okay?
So the reward function is this multiplied by gamma.
This, uh, value will not be multiplied by gamma
alanda deterministic case.
They're showing it to be here,
but actually your value is, uh,
your value is coming from here, value function, okay?
So, so
Yes sir. Yeah, there,
there is going
to be a recursive formulation for this.
The recursive formulation is in the next slide.
For a computing, the value for the state of ace,
you require the value computation,
pre computed value for the next state.
If you don't know that, what we do is we initialize
everybody to be zero, and then we start application
of this thing that is given.
In the next slide, I'll show you that.
So one question. So does that mean that for a,
for at any point an agent will always evaluate
at any point it has a four, four options,
and in that four options, in order to move, in order
to make the next move, it'll evaluate all the four options,
which will give the best, uh, reward.
It'll take that,
No, that is not applicable for value function.
That is applicable for another function.
That is called Q function.
I will show you that is another method called Q function.
This is for value function.
For value function, it takes into account
of all the next state possible under all
the next action, okay?
Like for three comm, three state,
you can go into four comma three,
you can go into three comma three back, you can go into um,
three comma two for all of those
next state possible, what is available to them.
That value will multiplied by the probability
that he's taking the action.
And then GAA factor coming in here, okay, look at here,
But what is the, what would be the
guiding principle in that case?
What, whether it should, which way it'll go
because in the q for the Q factor, you mentioned
that we'll go by the this.
What is the maximum
word in that case, right?
So in this case, what should be the,
the guiding principle in that case?
Okay? So guiding principle is in order,
first you compute the value function in the method
of this thing that is called, in order to compute the value
of a function, you require the value of the next state
value function to be available to you.
Okay? So as I told you here, this one is for
with the probability of 0.8,
let's say you are taking a action
from here, from the state of three, CO three,
you are going into the next state of four, CO three
with the probability 0.8, okay?
From three comma three, you are going to this state,
the probability 0.1 here, this
Part, that's the same state, right?
Yeah, that the same state.
There is a condition that I did not tell you
before that is you are allowed to take
any direction in the four direction.
Okay? So whenever one action is taking you
to the wall back again, you are hitting the wall here.
If you take the down direction, action,
you're hitting the wall as a result of hitting the wall,
you'll remain in the same state.
Okay? So if I want to find out the value
for three comma three here,
let's say this is three comma three, this is this,
this state is three comma three here.
If I want to find out the three comma three state under the
probabilistic movement,
that 0.8 probability you are taking action on, right?
With 0.1 probability, you are taking action in here, in
that is this direction, 0.1 prob you're taking action here
and the down direction, okay?
In that case, what is the value?
How we are going to compute that is given here,
Sir?
Uh, why are we not considering left side, uh, which is too c
Here, only three action possible
here under this situation, only three action possible.
How do we know that sir,
That is the environment given to you.
That is the environment, okay?
Right now it has only three action possible.
Actually, this problem is known as under slippery floor.
This, uh, in the textbook,
it is given this example is taken
from a textbook only, okay?
In the textbook reference, I will show you.
So when you compute the value function,
value function is basically by taking into account
of all possible action, which is taken,
multiply the probability of taking that action,
and then when you are getting the next date, that value,
we have to take it into account, multiply
with the gamma factor also, and do the submission for all.
You may be into this state as a ne as a next state.
You may be into this state four comma three,
or you may be into the same state again,
or you may be into the state of three comma two.
Okay? So either any one
of them state is going to be our next state.
So we are taking into account by the help
of probabilistic some that means it'll weight by probability
multiplied by the go factor and then summation,
this is the value function for this.
Okay? So one of you asked the about the question
that out of three possible action,
which action is giving me the highest value,
that action I should be choosing?
Okay? That is a separate function called Q function.
Value function is not accounting for a maximum possibility,
but just by calculating the next
action possible in my current state itself.
Okay? So that is called Q function.
Now, look at, there is a relation
that if you wanna calculate the value at this state,
you record the value for the next state.
What if the next step values are not known to you?
So in that case, we initialize all
of the next state at the iteration zero to be zero, okay?
And then we start doing this calculation
and the exact reation is given here.
This is called billman equation.
Now, look at here, when you have
zero time is a total upper limit value.
That means your initial as in case H is zero.
Your initial and value is basically for everybody.
We initialize zero value, okay?
For all the state, for all the state, it is initialized
with value of zero.
Then let's say you have only one time,
only one time step, you are allowed to take action.
You are not allowed to take more than one time step.
So in that case, you can calculate the value function
available for the state, which is nearest
to your terminal state.
You cannot do the function for the state,
which is two step away from your terminal state.
So under that situation, what we do is we find out this v
this one is subscript, D subscript one
function of value at the state of A.
So that is again, coming from this relation that is
maximization over all the action
that you can take, okay?
And this probability is coming into
factor because you want to take it expected, some
of the reward expected summ, see, lemme write you here.
Clearly anything we talk about expectation.
So anything, whenever we write expectation
of any variable like X, okay?
X is basically multiple thing, like
you have value X one, X two, X three.
These are like random, let's say in a concrete term,
let's say 10, 15, anything, any India value,
we can take it up for the value of X, okay?
But it is not coming from a single value.
It is possible, uh, the value
of X can be possible from any interior value
in this set, okay?
So under that case, the expectation
is basically written like this,
that this X is a random variable,
it'll take a particular value.
I i is integer the probability of this multiplied by I,
this is called the expectation, okay?
So the probability of taking X with a particular value
of integer, multiply that with a, if you just consider
what is the average of this, always we write the sum of I
divide by total number
of the set length is let's say small end, the sum of I by N.
Okay? This is the calculation of average.
So if you write it, break it up like this one
by N is what is the probability
of choosing any particular value out
of this set That is the probability of one by N.
Okay? So this one by n is a probability that this
is the probability multiply by the
value you are choosing, take the submission.
This is what is the meaning of expectation
and the same expectation, we can write it here
whenever we're doing a state transition here, okay?
Given that you are at the state of here, given
that you are at the state currently here,
the next state you're taking at a state of two
under the action of ri uh, upside movement, okay?
So again, this expectation under
that situation will be written like this summation
probably that you have moved into new,
new state called sdes.
Given that you are lying in the state of smallest
taking a particular action.
A, what is the probability of choosing a action,
a under state of A, so
that you're moving into sdes.
So this probability is accounted by this
and then the value, what is the value?
The value here is you are taking one action, right?
So you, you are getting a discounted reward
for the next date is
p plus one, which is basically is
what is happening.
So this probability is accounted by this prob movement.
Then what is the value we are applying?
This will be like this, this multiplied by the reward
that you are obtaining into this state of sdes, given
that you have taken a action under the state of a this plus
gamma multiplied by the next state of a test
is gamma multiplied by next state of a test.
Okay? That means you are taking a transition.
You, you, in order to find out the value for the function
value for a state of ace, you are taking an action,
you are getting a new state of ace test.
That new state value should be known to you beforehand.
Multiply that with the gamma factor, do the submission
for taking this reward under this state action pair.
Okay? So this is the, this is the eye factor
I factor means this is the value we are obtaining under this
probabilistic movement, okay?
So this will be some of our all possible.
Next state is test.
That is what is the meaning over here, sir?
Can you show using one example, sir?
That it, yeah, I'll show you, I'll show you.
Um, here itself. I'll show you.
I have a, uh, calculation here available.
So this relation is called billman equation. Okay?
Do I have it here?
Lemme just currently I don't have it here,
I have it in some other slide.
In any case, next class,
I'll show you the Python program example for calculation
of value function, okay?
So the meaning here is the value function for the state
of ace is depending on the value function
for the next state is dashed.
In addition to that, as
and when you're taking one transition, so this suffix,
this is the noting of the timestamp
that currently you are into this state of, okay?
So let's say at the timestamp of one, that means, uh,
this one time step is remaining
for you since these values are computed from the backward
side, from the terminal side, from terminal state
to the original state.
So when you have one timestamp remaining
and at that moment you are in a state of ace how
to com compute the value at that position
that is given in this relation.
That is you are taking a transition from S to sdes, take
that probability, multiply with the reward
that you are getting for the transition plus the value,
precomputed value for the state of S desk.
At that position, you have only zero times
step times step left.
That means as you are having one time step left here
after taking one transition, you have zero timestamp left.
So this is a recursive relation.
This will go on for every time of this year,
this super, uh, subscript index.
So times step remaining two at that position, if you want
to complete the value for a particular state, you are going
to a new state of sde At that position,
you are having only one time step remaining for this.
Okay? So this will go on
and for this I'll show you next class.
I'll show you the python example for this
because these are all, uh,
the environment knowledge is known to you.
That is a assumption for this problem solution, okay?
This is an important relation.
This is known as billman equation, this one, okay?
Then what will be the optimal values of states in action
where we can able to go for a maximum expected
in this things sir goal.
So Those are main Objective.
Yeah, main
objective. So that is a,
that is a function depend on two thing.
One is the choice of the policy
and the other one is the
other one is the under the same policy, you are allowed
to take any action outta four
possible or three possible action.
Okay? So this, at a given state,
you can change your assignment of state to action
under single policy.
So there are two things that I keep on changing.
One is you, first you fix your policy, then you change your
probability assignment to every state
and action pair, okay?
Under the single policy, you find out
what is the best possible mapping from state to action.
You freeze that again, you start your iteration, you change
to new policy, and under new policy, again,
you do the same job of finding the
mapping of state and action.
So ultimately this will be going on
for long amount of iteration.
Then the value will be converging to a, uh, particular, uh,
equilibrium wherein even though you change your policy,
you'll not be able to get a better help.
So that is basically called, there are two methods of doing
that ation, and another one is called policy iteration.
For both of them, I will show you in the next class onward,
it'll take the first chapter is our debt only.
It is called policy at value.
This one, this is the, this is the algorithm
that will be used for all the time.
This is policy at, okay, here
to say, so here we say this value attrition that in the
but deterministic policy, no, no.
For prob stick also value is possible. Okay? Sir?
Only for the first case, I have given you deterministic.
The first example.
Yeah, for this first example,
this is a deterministic case, okay?
But in this itself, you see that
if the action is success here,
action is successfully deterministically here,
action is successful with the of 0.8.
Successful means with 0.8 probability,
you are taking a action on the right side, okay?
There is no guarantee that you'll be landing onto the, uh,
sail, which is on the right side of you.
That is what is called the success with probability,
because we assume the flow is slippery flow.
You want to take a movement on the right side,
but it'll be giving you success with 0.8.
Probably that means with 0.8 property, really you'll move on
to the next state, which on the right side of you,
but with 0.1 property, you will get into the state,
which is upside of the upside next date,
or which is 0.1 probability,
the downside next date, yes.
So under each of the cases value
and policy, both are going to be giving you the result
and for every, uh, policy of whatever is the policy,
whatever is the, that are choosing, both of them are going
to be using the billman equation of optimality.
This equation, okay?
In which you look at this value is
associated with the maximum.
Here's a maximum value coming out here,
and here it is RG max RG Maxs the argument for which
the argument for which this quantity is becoming maximum.
This quantity argument means with the argument here,
argument, user action, the function, what is the argument?
Basically whatever argument are passing on, okay? Yes.
So you interested to find out only the argument,
that argument which is producing the maximum value.
So that is the assignment of pi.
Pi means, uh, pi is basically policy
for a given state of ace.
What is the probability of choosing a action of a?
That is what is the interest for the pi.
Initially, it'll be taking a lot of difficulty for you
to understand, but I think tomorrow, next class,
I will give you a, um, example
with the Python on matlab, whichever possible for me. So,
So here, uh, like K one to H, right?
Uh, what does it mean?
It's, it's like policy one to H
or it's, uh, step one.
Yeah, step, step,
Okay, so, so then, uh, the policy k uh, there,
right? The pi K there,
PI K is there.
When you have K time, step remaining, this key index stands
for when you have key timestamp remaining
under the single policy.
What is the value?
I mean, what is the argument you're assigning for it here?
That is depending on the value function,
this value function associated with the next date,
next date, when you have key minus one times
step remaining, okay?
There is a spelling mistake here on my side.
This will be S ds.
Here, here it'll be S dash here, it'll be so, so
Number of policies is equal to number of steps.
You, you make no,
No, no. Policy
is basically under a state what
action you want to take
and what is the prob of taking that action.
There is no meaning of policy.
You may have, there is no relation between the number
of policy and the number of times step independent,
Okay?
This, this K index is very important.
It says that when you have K times stable remaining
this particular thing, okay?
Mm-hmm. When you have K times stable remaining,
let me write it in your notepad
so you can understand very clearly.
When you have key times staple remaining, you are, you want
to find out the value for the state of A,
when you have key timestamp remaining,
this is the remaining times step.
This is gonna be the maximization over a
some, some is causing
because it's a probability of taking
a action under the state.
Given you are in the state of ace, you are taking action.
A, a can be up left, right? Anything, okay?
Under that action, you are moving into the next state.
So this product you take into account
and what is the quantity?
You are taking this multiplication that is
reward for the next state.
You are getting into multiply gamma,
you are getting into next state of sdes
and how many times remaining will be now only K minus one.
This one is called value function for the state of A.
When you have key times step remaining.
Now this key times step remaining is a very important thing,
but for the optimal case,
optimal means you are not bothered about
how many times steps remaining.
In that case, we write optimal means.
I'm not bothered about how many times steps remaining,
I just want to know statistically average case that given
that I am in the state of is I don't know
how much time remaining for me.
So it is called long term.
It is called long term
value for a state.
Suppose you wanna do a state of what is the value in
that case, the same expression here, maximization over a
expression over a for this will remain the same.
All of this will remain the same,
yet this will be remaining the same.
Only things this,
how many times they remaining, I'm not bothered about it.
So I need to look for the optimal value
for the next date option.
So this is called billman optimal equation,
and this is the billman equation for the value function.
Okay?
So, so you Have
Next cluster. You
have next? Yeah.
Can you explain how they're independent?
Uh, I mean just the value, value function
and the policy, nutrition,
Value function and policy function,
they are not independent.
They require each other thing. Mm-hmm.
They require each other thing
because as I, you can see the relation here itself,
the value function is dependent on the value
of the next state value, okay?
Under the single policy.
Now, if you want to know what is the optimal probability
of assigning a state to a particular action for that,
that is called policy function, okay?
Yeah. So for that probability assignment, so we need
to use the value
that you have computed just now in the previous step, okay?
Mm-hmm. This value you have computed, then
you just find out under what action, which value,
value means from here to here, from here to here,
which value is the highest
Giving maximum.
Yeah. Then you find out argument of that maximum.
That's it. Hmm.
So they require each other, they're not independent.
What is independent is this timestamped remaining this K
and number of policy.
This policy you can have 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.
Even the number of policy can be H by two also,
or h by, I mean it may be equal to capital H.
Also, each policy stands for
what is the probability of assigning from one step
to another action.
So you have a quiz coming up tomorrow is a, uh, deadline is,
uh, tomorrow night, uh, 9:00 PM Okay?
So today is 22 point quiz will be saved by the TA by today,
9:00 PM or 10:00 PM So you can attempt it anytime
after it has been uploaded till tomorrow,
9:00 PM Is it fine? Yeah, sure.
Fine. Thank you.
Okay. And you have to upload your class note,
whatever you are taking by tomorrow night,
same time of the quiz,
Okay, sir?
Okay, fine. Thank you, Sir.
When will the assignment be activated?
Uh, for the class notes
Class note you, it'll be same time, closing time.
It'll be activated, uh, throughout the day
because now we have a exam duty today, in the afternoon.
After that they'll enable it.
Okay, sir. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank
You, sir. Thank you, sir.
Thank you, sir. Uh, sir, when will be the quiz
active on Sunday?
No quiz will be active from today.
Night, uh, 9:00 PM onward, I think. Okay.
You can attempt it till tomorrow, 9:00 PM It is available
for only six minute duration.
Once you attempt it, it'll be closing
by another six minute till 9:00 PM Uh,
Excuse me, sir. The
recording session, when will it be available, sir?
Oh, that I need to check with the organizer.
You want I, I'll mail them so
that it'll be available to you by today? Yes,
Sir. Yes sir.
Just in case we want to reverse,
it'll be helpful for us.
Fine. Thank you, sir.
Thank you. Thank you, sir.